---- Experimental analysis: I have varied S, M, epsilon, and the maxiter.
M:
As the number of different Gaussians increases above the default of 8, we see that
the model consistently attains 100% accuracy (including at 8). However, as the number
of Gaussians decreases below 8, we see that for some M, the accuracy may fall in the range
of 5%. For such an easy task (easy, as our simple gaussian model can achieve 100% accuracy
very reliably), this deviation is significant. It shows how smaller numbers of Gaussians
may not be able to as accurately generate the data and may not learn some of the
intricacies of the task, leading to poorer performance. In this case, we would
say the the low capacity of the model has led to underfitting of the data. It is
important to note that this underfitting is not major, though it is significant
given how easy the task is. Of course, with many
Gaussians we run the risk of overfitting, however in the range I have tested, it
does not appear to be an issue (I tested 1<=M<=14). However, it is also possible
that we have too little data to be able to properly test any overfitting to sampling
errors. In a rerun of the variation of M, we very clearly see that low M values (<5) lead
to decreases in accuracy due to limited model capacity underfitting the data distribution.
maxiter, epsilon:
I also test the convergence of the optimization algorithm by varying the max iterations
and the required improvement, independently. These results are very noisy, as they should
be given that I only ran them for one seed, but they show a general correlation that
with a higher required improvement, we see worse performance. This results is
as expected because we are undertraining each Gaussian mode, preventing it from
learning some of the variance needed to differentiate the speakers. The noise in
these results could be due to a lack of stability of the data or of the model, as well.
In testing the max iterations, we see that it has relatively no impact, as the models
train in very few iterations and converge given the standard settings. The only major
impact we see is that 0 iterations leads to untrained models giving horrible performance.
These results can be viewed in gmmResults.txt. It is important to note that I used
the mean log likelihood for this run, so epsilon values in the range of 1-10 are
about 1-25% of the mean log likelihood (40-50).
S:
For the given set of hyperparameters, we would observe 100% accuracy on all numbers of speakers, as
for the current number (32), we already get 100% and fewer speakers means an easier task. So,
I have tested with worse hyperparameters settings that give worse accuracies and we see that infact,
when 32 speakers does not give 100% accuracy, we do see an increase in accuracy with fewer speakers.
For my chosen hyperparametres, we see that at around 12 speakers is the first deviation from 100%
accuracy. The accuracy oscillates back but then consistently drops to 95% around 20 speakers.
----- Hypothetical answers
To improve the classification accuracy, without adding more data, we do a rigorous
hyperparameter search. As I have already shown in the above experiments, these hyperparamters can be vital
to the performance of the algorithm (namely, the epsilon and M). To find the best hyperparameters, we should
use a randomized grid search to evaluate a wide range of values (it has been shown to converge quicker than
full grid search). Given that the training phase for these models is realtively quick, I would not
recommend Bayesian Optimization to find the best hyperparamters. However, I we should be using a holdout validation set
to veryfiy the final validation accuracy of the model. In this setup, we would have three datasets, a training set, a test
set, and a validation set, where we find our best hyperparameters on the test set and report our best
accuracy on the validation set. We could also use more rigorous testing methods such as
k-fold cross-validation to better account for any instabilities in the data.
Finally, we could also test other distributions other than Gaussian, though this would require
us to paramterize the distribution in different manners and solve for the log likelihood for each
distribution.

Based on the current implementation, there is never a scenario where the classifier will
say the an utterance is not from any of the speakers; it will always pick a speaker, even if
it is very unlikely. Specifically, the use of an argmax() will always give a result. This assumption
is fine if the test distribution is sampled from the same output space as the training distribution,
but this is not always true. To make this model for production, we should implement a threshold on
the likelihood to determine if a data point is from any of the speaker models. We could gather new samples
that are out of distribution to determine a good setting for this threshold. Alternatively, we could
train another model to predict out of distribution data.

A common method for acoustic speech verification is to train an LSTM on each speaker and
then evaluate the cosine distance of the hidden states for all saved speakers and the new speaker.
We could borrow on this paradigm here and train an LSTM for each speaker. Then, on new speaker inputs
we evaluate the cosine distance to some threshold and return the selected speaker. This model works well
as we can also detect out of distribution data easily and achieve high precision. We could also use KNN,
however this model will grow inefficient very quickly with lots of data. Finally, we could also try
a convolutional neural network trained on the raw speech data (over a fixed interval). Then, we select
a fixed number of speakers and have a densely connected output layers to select which class (from the final
convolutional hidden layer's features).
--- BONUS
for my bonus, I explored the use of PCA. We see that PCA in general does not decrease the test accuracy
of the models even for only half the number of features kept. This is because the data is linearly transformable
such that the total kept variance is still very close to the original data (near 100%). We would expect these results as the
task appears toe be easy, indicating that it might even be (nearly) linearly separable. In this case, it can be
very easy to keep enough information to still be able to separate the different output distributions. However,
at small PCA components <5, we see that there is indeed a decrease in accuracy (around 50% accuracy achieved),
due to the loss of crucial information needed to separtae the speaker distributions.
